Okay, we're rolling for just the last few questions, I guess.
Okay, another thing that you've worked with in your career in science fiction is President
of the Science Fiction Writers of America.
What are your feelings about that?
Do you think that has a useful function?
I think that professional organizations have a considerable bunch, I mean all of them,
not just the Science Fiction Writers of America.
I think they also divert an awful lot of energy that could better be used in some other
way but I don't see how to have them and have the benefits without having as well as.
At the moment, I'm also, I've just recently become the president of a thing called World
SF which is an international organization of people who are professionally connected
with science fiction.
They had a meeting in Italy last summer and I couldn't go there.
While I wasn't looking, they elected me president, so I'm stuck with that.
It's taken quite a lot of my time.
But I think that they are useful.
It's useful for people in any profession to be able to be in some sort of contact with
their peers and I think particularly in science fiction, since it's worldwide and there are
so many restraints in the way of communication that the professional organizations serve
a very important function.
You served one term as president, correct?
No, I've been sensible enough to stop after one.
I was quite happy with it.
I served two.
Oh, okay.
Okay, switching on one term was no worse than a bad cold.
The second term got very difficult.
Does it get political in that respect?
No, it's just that there are a lot of frustrations involved for writers and they accumulate
and the frustrations involving the science fiction writers of America, the organization,
began to accumulate around my second term.
And science fiction writers are a very glamorous, argumentative bunch.
I love them, but they are hard to get along with sometimes.
Okay, just to switch direction here.
Again, I can't think of anybody who can better answer this question.
Kenan, an unpublished author with a reasonable amount of talent, make it today in the science fiction field,
would you have any particular advice to a would-be science fiction writer?
The science fiction field has always, excepting no times at all, been very hospitable to new writers.
As soon as anybody turns up with a good story, he or she is one of the fraternities.
I think most of the most recent converts to writing science fiction have been female at sea.
And there are two pieces of advice I give.
I have a sort of a set speech, as a matter of fact, answering the two questions on how to be a writer
and how to make a living out of it.
The question, how to be a writer, is answered by you sit down and write.
There's no other way of doing it.
Taking a course in writing won't do it.
Telling your girlfriend, friend, you plan to be a writer, won't do it.
You have to sit down, you have to put words on paper, and you have to finish the story.
Then how do you get to be published and successful?
You take the stories you've written and you mail them to somebody who might buy them.
There's no better way of doing that.
There are many fantasies that people have that if they could just get an influential friend in a publishing house to do it for them,
or an agent who could do it for them, that it would all be made easier.
The fact is that almost no writers become professionals except by doing just that.
Every once in a while, someone finds a shortcut that's sort of like being hit by lightning.
You can't count on them.
That's all there is to it.
You write and you send it off and you keep on doing that until people start publishing it.
Maybe they never will, in which case you've wasted your time, but there is no good way of doing it in any other fashion.
But with a reasonable amount of talent and discipline, there is room if you keep at it.
There is always room.
It is a very hospitable field.
At the moment, I think that, well, up until maybe two years ago, I would have advised any new writer to try writing a novel
because the demand exceeded the supply.
At the moment, I think I would advise them to try writing short stories because it's quite obvious if you look at any of the magazines,
that they're pretty hungry for short stories.
Otherwise, they wouldn't print some of the ones they do.
So, if I were a new writer anxious to write science fiction, I would write short stories, then I would go to the newsstand on the corner,
and I would copy out the addresses of the magazines and send the stories off to them one after another until somebody bought them,
or until the stories the manuscripts were worn out.
Okay. I'm not sure you'd care to answer this next question, but are there any particular contemporary authors
say that it started in the last, oh, five to ten years or so that you particularly think are good, or that you like?
There are a lot of them. There are so many of them that I hate to answer the question.
Some of the ones that I've watched most closely are people like Gene Will, who I think is very talented,
and he's been writing, I guess, a little more than five years, but not much more.
And a number of women who have come into the field, the ones I like best have been in a little longer than five or ten years,
like James Tiptree Jr., which is pen name for Wilming Dallas Sheldon, or Ursula Le Guin, or Joanna Russ, but there are a lot.
So many that I like, as I like them for different things, I hate to say that I like one better than another.
Yeah, that would be difficult. I agree.
Okay, let me end up by coming back to you.
What are you presently working on? What kind of books do you, are you going to be working on in the near future?
Well, I've just finished a whole bunch of books. I made a serious mistake and signed more contracts than I had realized,
and therefore at the beginning of last year I discovered I owed eight books for delivery in 1980.
Fortunately, some of them were non-books, two anthologies in a collection of previously uncollected shorter stories and so on.
Quite a few of them had been largely completed before the year began, but nevertheless I delivered, I actually delivered six books last year,
and one more so far this year, and I've got two to go because I've signed a contract since then.
And the book I've just delivered, well, the most recent book out is a non-fiction book on movies, science fiction movies,
called Science Fiction Studies and Film, which I wrote in collaboration with my son, who had a film degree from Syracuse University,
and I figured he'd do everything I didn't know about film itself.
And the next one out I think will be something called Frederick Poe's Favorite Stories,
which is a sort of retrospective anthology of the stories I was most interested in in the 39 years I was an editor.
And the next one after that is a novel called The Cool War, which Valentine Del Rey will bring out sometime in April, or May, I'm not sure when.
Is there anything you see or you're toying with any kinds of works that would be any kind of radical departure from the things you've done in the past?
There's a novel that I have not got very far with, which is quite a radical departure, and I haven't signed a contract on it.
I've been fiddling with it my spare time thinking about it, but I really don't like to talk about work that I haven't finished yet.
I'm not, maybe it's superstition, but it seems to me that it works out better if I do it all inside my own head.
Don't talk too much about it.
But there is one which I think will be, well, I don't know, I hate to predict, but I think it will be my favorite novel when I get around to doing it.
I was kind of curious.
I understand that you've had a background in ancient history.
I guess what, the Roman emperor Tiberius in ancient Rome?
I don't have a background in anything.
I'm a high school dropout, I'm self-educated.
I was recently notified that I'd been nominated for an honor, and they asked for some background information about education and so on.
So, where I've had all the spaces for education, I wrote an auto-didact, which means that I didn't go to school, I taught myself.
But I have been very interested in history, all kinds of history, but particularly ancient history.
Well, there are some periods that are interesting, more than others in the Romans, or part of the most interesting period to me.
And I did write a book on the emperor Tiberius, which caused the Encyclopedia Britannica to come to me when they wanted a new biography of Tiberius for the new edition of the Encyclopedia.
So I became their authority on Roman emperor.
And I have a good deal of interest in science as a spectator sport.
I spend a lot of time reading journals and magazines and publications that belong to New York Academy of Sciences,
which is the Planetary Society and the American Astronautical Society and the AAAS, and so on.
So there's a lot that interest me, but I cannot say that I have special qualifications in any of those areas.
Have you ever considered writing a pure fantasy novel?
Not really. I've written some short fantasy pieces at one time or another, but I'm not terribly well satisfied with them.
Other people do that far better than I do.
Okay, I just have one more question.
I understand that you go around giving lectures or speaking to various organizations and so forth quite a bit these days.
Could you tell us what you talk about and what kinds of organizations you speak before?
Well, let's see.
Yesterday I spoke to Princeton University on science fiction.
The day before that I spoke to the Association of American Publishers on the Future of Electronic and other non-print publications.
And it sort of goes like that. I talk about either science fiction or the future.
I don't lecture nearly as much as I used to because I found that I got very tired of the sound of my voice,
so I've been limiting it pretty carefully, but I still do it.
Last year I spoke more than I intended.
This year I hope to limit the appearances of that sort to maybe 15 or 20.
But some of your lectures have a futurist topic or tone to them, don't they?
That's right, yeah.
I do talk about the future.
I'm a member of the World Future Society and I've been involved in all three of their world general assemblies as a participant program.
I mean, on the program, section chairman and two of them.
And I have on the back burner a book on future studies, which I may one day get around to finishing.
Actually, I finished it twice and decided I didn't like it both times.
But I'm primarily a first and foremost science fiction writer.
It's in the blood and there's no way I can change it.
Okay, Mr. Paul, that is excellent.
I'm going to give David wants to ask you something for just a second.